# LinearRegression-Spring17

RLab homework for course Linear Regression, Spring 17, Tsinghua University

## Contents

### Homework 1: The Evaluation of Parameter Estimator for Simple Linear Model

**Abstract**

In this paper, we get in the model of simple linear regression and proposed five main estimators of it. Then we carefully analyse the estimators’ intuitive behaviour and calcuate their analytical or numerical solution. We then design the experiments, especially in data generation. We expose the estimator to different kind of pseudo-data designed above and generated by R and anaylse its performance in four main perspectives: minumum variance, bias, consistence and large sample property. Finally we visualize the fitted line of these estimators and demonstrate the intuitive understanding of the five estimators.

**Author**

Yihong Gu**Full PDF**

[The Evaluation of Parameter Estimator for Simple Linear Model](homework1/paper.pdf)

**Code**

[homework1.R](homework1/code/homework1.R)

### Homework 2 The Evaluation of One Variable Nonparamteric Linear Regression

**Abstract**

In this paper, we proposed an one variable nonparamteric linear regression method called 'the k-nearest neighbourhood estimate'. We firstly carefully define the model and describe our method. Afterwards we use the simple case and some calculus to demonstrate its large sample properties. Then we proposed the hybrid determination of hyperparamter $h$ using both the large sample property as well as pratical method called 'search and fix'. We then design the experiments, especially in data generation. We expose the estimator to different kind of pseudo-data designed above and generated by R and anaylse its performance using $L^2$ error. Using the results of experiments, we discuss its performance and use some sample plots to illustrate them.

**Author**

Yihong Gu**Full PDF**

[The Evaluation of One Variable Nonparamteric Linear Regression](homework2/paper.pdf)

**Code**

[homework2.R](homework2/code/homework2.R)